[CUBRIDMAN-189] SQL Rewriter : Predicate push (#452)
CUBRID/cubrid-manual: en/sql/tuning.rst

the *athlete* table would have been fully scanned and joined before filtering with the condition *a.nation_code = 'KOR'*.

However, with **Predicate Push**, if the query is transformed as follows, the optimization ensures that only fewer amounts of data are queried.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT a.name, r.score 
        FROM (SELECT name, count(*) cnt FROM athlete WHERE nation_code = 'KOR' GROUP BY name ) a, record r
        WHERE a.code = r.athlete_code
        AND a.nation_code = 'KOR';

In CUBRID, **Predicate Push** can't be performed if the query meets the following conditions:

#. Contains **CONNECT BY**.
    
#. Using aggregation or analytical functions.

#. Using **ROWNUM, LIMIT**, or **GROUPBY_NUM(), INST_NUM(), ORDERBY_NUM()**.
    
#. Written using **Correlated Subquery**.

#. When subqueries are used in predicates.

#. The view includes methods.

#. When the predicate to be pushed or the target for **Predicate Push** within the view uses **RANDOM (), DRANDOM (), SYS_GUID ()**\.

#. When performing an **OUTER JOIN** and either the predicate to be pushed or the target for **Predicate Push** within the view uses:
        * Predicates written in the **ON** clause.

>         * NULL transformation functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        * **NULL** transformation functions.
```

The following is an example that performs an **OUTER JOIN** with the predicate to be pushed in the **ON** clause condition.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT a.name, r.score 
        FROM (SELECT * FROM athlete WHERE gender = 'M') a
            LEFT OUTER JOIN record r ON a.code = r.athlete_code AND a.nation_code = 'KOR';

> In this case, *a.nation_code = 'KOR'* exists in the **ON** clause during the LEFT **OUTER JOIN**. Such a predicate within the **ON** clause is not a target for **Predicate Push**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, *a.nation_code = 'KOR'* exists in the **ON** clause during the **LEFT OUTER JOIN**. Such a predicate within the **ON** clause is not a target for **Predicate Push**.
```

> The following is an example that performs an **OUTER JOIN** where either the predicate to be pushed or the target for **Predicate Push** within the view uses the NULL transformation function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example that performs an **OUTER JOIN** where either the predicate to be pushed or the target for **Predicate Push** within the view uses the **NULL** transformation function.
```

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT a.name, r.score 
        FROM athlete a
                LEFT OUTER JOIN (SELECT * FROM record WHERE medal = 'G') r ON a.code = r.athlete_code
        WHERE NVL(r.score, '0') = '0';

> When performing an **OUTER JOIN** and either the predicate to be pushed or the target for **Predicate Push** within the view uses a NULL transformation function, it's not a target for **Predicate Push**. This includes **COALESCE (), NVL (), NVL2 (), DECODE (), IF (), IFNULL (), CONCAT_WS ()**. Furthermore, **IS NULL ,CASE** statements are also not targets for **Predicate Push**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When performing an **OUTER JOIN** and either the predicate to be pushed or the target for **Predicate Push** within the view uses a **NULL** transformation function, it's not a target for **Predicate Push**. This includes **COALESCE (), NVL (), NVL2 (), DECODE (), IF (), IFNULL (), CONCAT_WS ()**. Furthermore, **IS NULL ,CASE** statements are also not targets for **Predicate Push**.
```

                9           60          600  'Left- 806'                     6
               10           60          600  'Left- 906'                     6

.. _pred-push:

Predicate Push
-----------------------

**Predicate Push** is an optimization that pushes the predicate of the main query into the view.

> By applying **Predicate Push** to the subquery, the amount of data queried in the main query is reduced.

Reviewer 2: The meaning of this sentence is not wrong if we consider the main query as the entire query.
But I think it reduces the amount of data being queried in the view query out of the entire query.
So, I would like to suggest that it would be better to mention the view query rather than the main query.

Author: I modified related sentences.

For instance, when performing a join using the join condition *a.code = r.athlete_code* as in the query below, if the external predicate can be pushed into the query block, the amount of data to be joined can be reduced.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT a.name, r.score 
        FROM (SELECT name, nation_code, code, count(*) cnt FROM athlete GROUP BY name, nation_code) a, record r
        WHERE a.code = r.athlete_code
        AND a.nation_code = 'KOR';

> There are no predicates defined within the view of the query above. If the query transformation doesn't work, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are no predicates in the inline-view of the query above. If the query transformation doesn't work, 
```

> the *athlete* table would have been fully scanned and joined before filtering with the condition *a.nation_code = 'KOR'*.

Reviewer 2: It seems similar to the meaning of a Korean sentence, but it is different.
If there is no special reason, how about translating the Korean sentence as is?

Author: I modified related sentence.

> However, with **Predicate Push**, if the query is transformed as follows, the optimization ensures that only fewer amounts of data are queried.

Reviewer 2: How about below?

```
However, if the query is transformed as follows by using **Predicate Push**, it can be optimized to reduce the amount of data being queried.
```

Author: I think it's good idea, I modified it.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT a.name, r.score 
        FROM (SELECT name, nation_code, code, count(*) cnt FROM athlete WHERE nation_code = 'KOR' GROUP BY name, nation_code ) a, record r
        WHERE a.code = r.athlete_code;

> In CUBRID, **Predicate Push** can't be performed if the query meets the following conditions:

Reviewer 2: How about below?
```
In the following cases, **Predicate Push** is not performed.
````

Author: It's simpler.

#. Using **NO_PUSH_PRED** hint on main query.

#. Contains **CONNECT BY**.
    

> #. Using aggregation or analytical functions.

Reviewer 2: How about below?
It would be better to use the same wording as other parts of the manual.
```
Using aggregate or analytic functions.
```

Author: I think it's good.

#. Using **ROWNUM, LIMIT**, or **GROUPBY_NUM(), INST_NUM(), ORDERBY_NUM()**.
    
#. Written using **Correlated Subquery**.

> #. When subqueries are used in predicates.

Reviewer 2: I wish the expression were simple.
```
predicate using subquery
```

> #. The view includes methods.

Reviewer 2: Is it necessary to mention the view here when it hasn't been mentioned consistently from the start?
How about below?
```
Using **methed**.
```

#. When the predicate to be pushed or the target for **Predicate Push** within the view uses **RANDOM (), DRANDOM (), SYS_GUID ()**\.

#. When performing an **OUTER JOIN** and either the predicate to be pushed or the target for **Predicate Push** within the view uses:
        * Predicates written in the **ON** clause.
        * **NULL** transformation functions.

The following is an example that uses **NO_PUSH_PRED** hint on main query.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT /*+ NO_PUSH_PRED*/ a.name, r.score 
        FROM (SELECT name, nation_code, code, count(*) cnt FROM athlete GROUP BY name, nation_code) a, record r
        WHERE a.code = r.athlete_code
        AND a.nation_code = 'KOR';

> If the **NO_PUSH_PRED** hint is used on main query, **Predicate Push** is not applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the **NO_PUSH_PRED** hint is used on main query, **Predicate Push** is not performed.
```

The following is an example that performs an **OUTER JOIN** with the predicate to be pushed in the **ON** clause condition.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT a.name, r.score 
        FROM (SELECT * FROM athlete WHERE gender = 'M') a
            LEFT OUTER JOIN record r ON a.code = r.athlete_code AND a.nation_code = 'KOR';

In this case, *a.nation_code = 'KOR'* exists in the **ON** clause during the **LEFT OUTER JOIN**. Such a predicate within the **ON** clause is not a target for **Predicate Push**.

The following is an example that performs an **OUTER JOIN** where either the predicate to be pushed or the target for **Predicate Push** within the view uses the **NULL** transformation function.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT a.name, r.score 
        FROM athlete a
                LEFT OUTER JOIN (SELECT * FROM record WHERE medal = 'G') r ON a.code = r.athlete_code
        WHERE NVL(r.score, '0') = '0';

> When performing an **OUTER JOIN** and either the predicate to be pushed or the target for **Predicate Push** within the view uses a **NULL** transformation function, it's not a target for **Predicate Push**. This includes **COALESCE (), NVL (), NVL2 (), DECODE (), IF (), IFNULL (), CONCAT_WS ()**. Furthermore, **IS NULL ,CASE** statements are also not targets for **Predicate Push**.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be clearer to list the null-related functions in the description above rather than in the example.
The Korean manual is also related.
> This includes **COALESCE (), NVL (), NVL2 (), DECODE (), IF (), IFNULL (), CONCAT_WS ()**.

Author: I listed null-related functions in english manual and korean manual.

Reviewer 2: I commented on the change in location.

Reviewer 2: I commented on the change in location.

Reviewer 2: And I think that `resolve conversation` should be done by the comment writer after checking the results.
Alternatively, the review requester can `resolve conversation` by receiving a check from the comment writer.

Author: Understood. I'll ensure to get confirmation before proceeding with `Resolve conversation`.

Author: You mentioned, `I commented on the change in location.` May I ask where you placed the comment?

Reviewer 2: Please understand that my expression may not have been clear.

I wrote the below in the top comment. It means `in the description`.
> I think it would be clearer to list the null-related functions in the description above rather than in the example.

I think there should be a list of the null-related functions along with the `**NULL** transformation functions.` sentence.

Author: I understand. Below the description list starting with `In the following cases, **Predicate Push** is not performed:`, I've organized the NULL related functions in a note format.

                9           60          600  'Left- 806'                     6
               10           60          600  'Left- 906'                     6

.. _pred-push:

Predicate Push
-----------------------

**Predicate Push** is an optimization that pushes the predicate of the main query into the view.

By applying **Predicate Push** to the subquery, the amount of data queried in the subquery is reduced.

For instance, when performing a join using the join condition *a.code = r.athlete_code* as in the query below, if the external predicate can be pushed into the query block, the amount of data to be joined can be reduced.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT a.name, r.score 
        FROM (SELECT name, nation_code, code, count(*) cnt FROM athlete GROUP BY name, nation_code) a, record r
        WHERE a.code = r.athlete_code
        AND a.nation_code = 'KOR';

> There are no predicates in the inline-view of the query above. If the query transformation doesn't work, 

Reviewer 4: How about changing "transformation" to "rewrite" ?

Author: I also think `rewrite` is more appropriate in context.

the *athlete* table would have been fully scanned, creating a temporary result, joined, and filtering with the condition *a.nation_code = 'KOR'*.

> However, if the query is transformed as follows by using **Predicate Push**, it can be optimized to reduce the amount of data being queried.

Reviewer 4: How about changing "transformed" to "rewritten" ?

Author: I also think `rewritten` is more appropriate in context.

.. code-block:: sql

        SELECT a.name, r.score 
        FROM (SELECT name, nation_code, code, count(*) cnt FROM athlete WHERE nation_code = 'KOR' GROUP BY name, nation_code ) a, record r
        WHERE a.code = r.athlete_code;

In the following cases, **Predicate Push** is not performed:

#. Using **NO_PUSH_PRED** hint on main query.

#. Contains **CONNECT BY** on main query.
    
#. Using aggregate or analytic functions on view.

#. Using **ROWNUM, LIMIT**, or **GROUPBY_NUM(), INST_NUM(), ORDERBY_NUM()** on view.
    
#. Using **Correlated Subquery**.

> #. When subqueries are used in predicates.

Reviewer 4: how about changing the following ?

Using subqueries in predicates

Author: I also think `Using subqueries in predicates` is simpler and better.
